Make Way for Ducklings
Robert McCloskey
ISBN13 9780140564341
>>>>>
Mr. and Mrs. Mallard were looking for a place to live. But every time Mr. Mallard saw what looked like a nice
place, Mrs. Mallard said it was no good. There were sure to be foxes in the woods or turtles in the water, and she
was not going to raise a family where there might be foxes or turtles. So they flew on and on.
When they got to Boston, they felt too tired to fly any further. There was a nice pond in the Public Garden, with a
little island on it. “The very place to spend the night,” quacked Mr. Mallard. So down they flapped.
Next morning they fished for their breakfast in the mud at the bottom of the pond. But they didn’t find much.
Just as they were getting ready to start on their way, a strange enormous bird came by. It was pushing a boat full
of people, and there was a man sitting on its back. “Good morning,” quacked Mr. Mallard, being polite. The big
bird •was too proud to answer. But the people on the boat threw peanuts into the water, so the Mallards followed
them all round the pond and got another breakfast, better than the first.
“I like this place,” said Mrs. Mallard as they climbed out on the bank and waddled along. “Why don’t we build
a nest and raise our ducklings right in this pond? There are no foxes and no turtles, and the people feed us peanuts.
What could be better?”
“Good,” said Mr. Mallard, delighted that at last Mrs. Mallard had found a place that suited her. But—
“Look out!” squawked Mrs. Mallard, all of a
dither. “You’ll get run over!”And when she got
her breath she added: “This is no place for babies,
with all those horrid things rushing about.
We’ll have to look somewhere else.”
They looked in Louisburg Square,
but there was no water to swim in.
So they flew over Beacon Hill and round the State
House, but there was no place there.
Then they flew over the Charles River. “This is
better,” quacked Mr. Mallard. “That island looks
like a nice quiet place, and it’s only a little way
from the Public Garden.” “Yes,” said Mrs. Mallard,
remembering the peanuts. “That looks like
just the right place to hatch ducklings.”
So they chose a cozy spot among the bushes near the water
and settled down to build their nest. And only just in time, for now
they were beginning to molt. All their old wing feathers started to
drop out, and they would not be able to fly again until the new
ones grew in.
But of course they could swim, and one day they swam over to
the park on the river bank, and there they met a policeman called
Michael. Michael fed them peanuts, and after that the Mallards called
on Michael every day.
After Mrs. Mallard had laid eight eggs in the nest she couldn’t go
to visit Michael any more, because she had to sit on the eggs to keep
them warm. She moved off the nest only to get a drink of water, or to
have her lunch, or to count the eggs and make sure they were all there.
One day the ducklings hatched out. First
came Jack, then Kack, and then Lack, then
Mack and Nack and Ouack and Pack and
Quack. Mr. and Mrs. Mallard were bursting
with pride. It was a great responsibility taking
care of so many ducklings, and it kept them
very busy.
One day Mr. Mallard decided he’d like to take a trip to see
what the rest of the river was like, further on. So off he set.
“I’ll meet you in a week, in the Public Garden,” he quacked
over his shoulder. “Take good care of the ducklings.”
“Don’t you worry,” said Mrs. Mallard. “I know all about
bringing up children.” And she did.
She taught them how to swim and dive.
She taught them to walk in a line, to come when they
were called, and to keep a safe distance from bikes and
scooters and other things with wheels.
When at last she felt perfectly satisfied with them, she said
one morning: “Come along, children. Follow me.” Before you
could wink an eyelash Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack, Nack, Ouack,
Pack, and Quack fell into line, just as they had been taught. Mrs.
Mallard led the way into the water and they swam behind her to
the opposite bank.
There they waded ashore and waddled along
till they came to the highway.
Mrs. Mallard stepped out to cross the road. “Honk, honk!” went the horns on the speeding cars. “Qua’a-ack!”
went Mrs. Mallard as she tumbled back again. “Quack! Quack! Quack! Quack!” went Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack,
Nack,
Ouack, Pack, and Quack, just as loud as their little quackers could quack. The cars kept speeding by and honking,
and Mrs. Mallard and the ducklings kept right on quack-quack-quacking.
They made such a noise that Michael came running, waving his arms and blowing his whistle.
He planted himself in the center of the road, raised
one hand to stop the traffic, and then beckoned with
the other, the way policemen do, for Mrs. Mallard to
cross over.
As soon as Mrs. Mallard and the ducklings
were safe on the other side and on their way
down Mount Vernon Street, Michael rushed back
to his police booth.
He called Clancy at headquarters and said: “There’s
a family of ducks walkin’ down the street!” Clancy said:
“Family of what?” “Ducks!” yelled Michael. “Send a
police car, quick!”
Meanwhile Mrs. Mallard had reached the
Corner Book Shop and turned into Charles
Street, with Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack, Nack,
Ouack, Pack, and Quack all inarching in line
behind her.
Everyone stared. An old lady from Beacon Hill said:
“Isn’t it amazing!” and the man who swept the streets
said: “Well, now, ain’t that nice!” and when Mrs. Mallard
heard them she was so proud she tipped her nose
in the air and walked along with an extra swing in her
waddle.
When they came to the corner of
Beacon Street there was the police car
with four policemen that Clancy had sent
from headquarters. The policemen held
back the traffic so Mrs. Mallard and the
ducklings could march across the street,
right on into the Public Garden.
Inside the gate they all turned round to say thank you to the
policemen. The policemen smiled and waved good-by.
When they reached the pond and swam across to the little
island, there was Mr. Mallard waiting for them, just as he had
promised.
The ducklings liked the new island so much that they
decided to live there. All day long they follow the swan
boats and eat peanuts.
And when night falls they swim to their little island and go to
sleep.
END