The Little Engine That Could
Watty Piper
ISBN13 978-0545234375
>>>>>
Chug, chug, chug. Puff, puff, puff.
Ding-dong, ding-dong. The little train
rumbled over the tracks. She was a happy
little train for she had such a jolly load to
carry. Her cars were filled full of good
things for boys and girls.
There were toy animals - giraffes with
long necks, Teddy bears with almost no
necks at all, and even a baby elephant.
Then there were dolls - dolls with blue
eyes and yellow curls, dolls with brown
eyes and brown bobbed heads, and the
gayest little toy clown you ever saw. And
there were cars full of toy engines,
aeroplanes, tops, jack-knives, picture puzzles,
books, and every kind of thing boys or
girls could want.
But that was not all. Some of the cars
were filled with all osrts of good things for
boys and girls to eat - big golden oranges,
red-cheeked apples, bottles of creamy milk
for their breakfasts, fresh spinach for their
dinners, peppermint drops, and lollypops
for after-meal treats.
The little train was carrying all these
good things to the good little boys and
girls on the other side of the mountain. She
puffed along happily. Then all of a
sudden she stopped with a jerk. She simply
could not go another inch. She tried
and she tried, but her wheels would not turn.
What were all those good little boys
and girls on the other side of the mountain
going to do without the jolly toys to play
with and the wholesome food to eat?
"Here comes a shiny new engine," said
the little clown who had jumped out of the
train. "Let us ask him to help us."
So all the dolls and toys cried out together:
"Please, Shiny New Engine, do carry
our train over the mountain. Our engine
has broken down, and the boys and girls
on the other side will have no toys to play
with and no wholesome food to eat unless
you help us."
But the Shiny New Engine snorted:
"I pull you? I am a Passenger Engine. I
have just carried a fine big train over the
mountain, with more cars than you ever
dreamed of. My train had sleeping cars,
with comfortable berths; a dining-car
where waiters bring whatever hungry
people want to eat; and parlor cars in which
people sit in soft arm-chairs and look out
of big plate-glass windows. I carry the
likes of you? Indeed not!" And off he
steamed to the roundhouse, where engines
live when they are not busy.
How sad the little train and all the
dolls and toys felt!
Then the little clown came out, "The
Passenger Engine is not the only one in
the world. Here is another coming, a fine
big strong one. Let us ask him to help
us."
The little toy clown waved his flag and
the big strong engine came to a stop.
"Please, oh, please, Big Engine," cried
all the dolls and toys together. "Do pull
our train over the mountain. Our engine
has broken down, and the good little boys
and girls on the other side will have no
toys to play with and no wholesome food
to eat unless you help us."
But the Big String Engine bellowed:
"I am a Freight Engine. I have just pulled
a big train loaded with costly machines
over the mountain. These machines print
books and newspapers for grown-ups to
read. I am a very important engine
indeed. I won't carry the likes of you!" And
the Freight Engine puffed off indignantly
to the round-house.
The little train and all the dolls and toys were
very sad.
"Cheer up," cried the little toy clown.
"The Freight Engine is not the only one
in the world. Here comes another. He
looks very old and tired, but our train is so
little, perhaps he can help us."
So the little toy clown waved his flag
and the dingy, rusty old engine stopped.
"Please, Kind Engine," cried all the
dolls and toys together. "Do pull our
train over the mountain. Our engine has
broken down, and the boys and girls on
the other side will have no toys to play
with and no wholesome food to eat unless
you help us."
But the rusty old engine sighed: "I
am so tired. I must rest my weary wheels.
I cannot pull even so little a train as yours
over the mountain. I can not. I can not.
I can not."
And off he rumbled to the round-house
chugging, "I can not. I can not. I can not."
Then indeed the little train was very,
very sad, and the dolls and toys were ready
to cry.
But the little clown called out, "Here
is another engine coming, a little blue
engine, a very little one, but perhaps she
will help us."
The very little angine came chug,
chugging merrily along.
When she saw the toy clown's flag, she stopped
quickly.
"What is the matter, my friends?" she asked
kindly.
"Oh, Little Blue Engine," cried the dolls and
toys. "Will you pull us over the mountain? Our
engine has broken down and the good boys and
girls on the other side will have no toys to
play with and no wholesome food to eat, unless
you help us. Please, please, help us, Little
Blue Engine."
"I'm not very big," said the Little Blue
Engine. "They use me only for switching
in the yard. I have never been over the
mountain."
"But we must get over the mountain
before the children awake," said all the
dolls and the toys.
The very little engine looked up and
saw the tears in the doll's eyes. And she
thought of the good little boys and girls on
the other side of the mountain who would
have no toys and no wholesome food unless
she helped.
Then she said, "I think I can. I think I can.
I think I can." And she hitched
herself to the little train.
She tugged and pulled and pulled and
tugged and slowly, slowly, slowly they
started off.
The toy clown jumped aboard and all
the dolls and the toy animals began to
smile and cheer.
Puff, puff, chug, chug, went the little
blue engine. "I think I can - I think I can
- I think I can - I think I can - I think I can
- I think I can - I think I can - I think I can
- I think I can."
Up, up, up. Faster and faster and
faster and faster the little engine climbed
until at last they reached the top of the
mountain.
Down in the valley lay the city.
"Hurrah, hurrah," cried the gay little
clown and all the dolls and toys. "The
good little boys and girls in the city will be
happy because you helped us, kind, Little
Blue Engine."
And the Little Blue Engine smiled
and seemed to say as she puffed steadily
down the mountain. "I thought I could.
I thought I could. I thought I could. I
thought I could. I thought I could.
I thought I could."